[Music]
I want to talk to you about something
okay is it okay that we talk okay then
here's why we all say okay you know some
things we say come so naturally that
it's hard to believe there was ever a
time when these words didn't exist no
I'm not talking about lit or shook here
I'm talking about this simple yet
timeless okay
had you been around before 1839 for
instance you wouldn't have had a clue
what it means because okay wasn't a
thing yet okay so before we get into the
story behind the word hit that subscribe
button and ring the notification bell to
join us on the bright side okay okay now
okay is easily one of the most widely
used expressions around the world
it isn't confined to one region language
or even purpose you use it to show that
you got the message
like when your boss says hey I need you
to send me a copy of that report and you
reply okay yeah if you think that
something was just mediocre you might
say the movie was okay plus it's a
universal attention draw as in okay
let's get down to business okay has a
long list of meanings and uses but there
are just as many if not more theories on
where the word comes from the first
theory is purely linguistic there are
those who believe that okay comes from
the scots oak i which translates to oh
yes gladden omnis correcta meaning
everything's correct finish okiya or
correct Greek all Acala meaning
everything's fine
the German expression only correctin or
without correction the Native American
Choctaw phrase okay which means it is so
or the French okay
meaning add dot what does that have to
do with something being okay well a ship
that has arrived safely a dock is doing
okay for sure
it might also come from the Haitian
Creole okays which translates to the K's
in English this is a port in Haiti known
for its a okay Rob now there have also
been some explanations related to
historical events okay as we know it
today could have come from freight agent
Obadiah Kelly he would sort of sign off
on boxes and objects being transported
by the Train writing his initials okay
another famous person with the same
initials was old Keokuk a Native
American tribal chief of the Sac and Fox
Nation he signed his initials on
treaties okay
okay is also short for the observatory
cue in London the okay stamp given by
this Royal Observatory in the late 19th
century was an international symbol of
the great quality meteorological
instruments they tested there and
finally there are some theories that
okay comes from the time of the American
Civil War it could stand for zero killed
which is a great report after battle or
perhaps it comes from the Oren Kendall
biscuits that were popular with the
soldiers it wasn't until the 1960s when
one scientist gave the matter some
really advanced research and found the
true origins of okay that man was Allan
Walker read an American linguist and
English professor at Columbia University
he checked the linguistic theories trace
the history back as far as he could and
shared his findings in a series of
articles published from 1963 to 1964
according to dr. Lawrence R horn
professor of linguistics and philosophy
at Yale reads conclusion remains the
most credible origin of the word ok so
what was this groundbreaking discovery
the truth is that it all started with a
newspaper joke in 1839 you see
newspapers in the 1830s were all about
fancy and often satirical abbreviations
for example theirs is BD it shall be
done
our TBS remains to be seen and espy
small potatoes just check out this
elaborate one used in an 1839 New York
newspaper report ok k BW P stood for one
kind kiss before we part it was also a
time when deliberate misspellings became
popular let's see there's ky4
no use kg4 no go and Oh W for all right
and you thought the internet age came up
with some cool abbreviations s MA well
many of those quirky and purposely
misspelled abbreviations didn't really
live on as for ok it's doc but it first
made its appearance on March 23rd 1839
when a funny editorial came out in the
Boston Morning Post it was dedicated to
an organization called the anti bell
ringing society that formed as a joke
against the new ban on ringing dinner
bells in the city in the article the
editor writes the abbreviation okay to
stand for all correct now at that time
it was very common to print all correct
and full when you wanted to get the
point across that everything is in order
it was this article in particular
however that gave it the abbreviation
okay the public love the new expression
and so did the competition by the end of
the year
Oh
had shown up in newspapers across the
East Coast like in the Boston evening
transcript the New York Evening Tattler
and the Philadelphia Gazette however
what really helped okay to win worldwide
popularity is the 1840 American
presidential election Martin Van Buren
the Democratic candidate was nicknamed
old Kinderhook after his birthplace in
Kinderhook New York his supporters
formed the okay club and his slogan
became okay things went pretty crazy as
they tend to do in presidential election
campaigns the opposing Republican Party
started using okay in other contexts
when speaking of the rival party it now
meant out of cash out of character or a
full catastrophe or fully confused
it was even used to make fun of Andrew
Jackson Van Buren's predecessor for his
poor spelling this is probably why this
totally harmless expression today made
it into the slang dictionary of vulgar
words in 1864 okay could have ended up
as a one campaign slogan and joke but it
got lucky again the telegraph was coming
into use at that time and this handy
abbreviation gain even more popularity
by the 1870s telegraph operators were
using it as standard response to
indicate receiving a transmission pop
culture also started making use of the
expression Rodgers and Hammerstein's
played with it in their 1943 musical
Oklahoma declaring that the state was
okay the I'm okay year ok book published
by Thomas Harris in 1967 became one of
the most popular self-help guides ever
even though now we know the
scientifically approved theory of okay's
origins it's still pretty cool that
there are so many other theories around
this is what makes ok truly a people's
expression
the number of languages and countries
that have claimed their decisive role in
its creation only proves its popularity
and importance for the whole world and
who knows maybe a couple of centuries
from now linguists of the future will
try to trace the origins of lol or Yolo
so what abbreviation do you use the most
tell us in the comments below don't
forget to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click subscribe
to stay on the bright side of life okay
[Music]
you